# Tensor-Decomposition

Data visualization is commonly used to help abstract out and interpret the useful information in a dataset. But the visualization of multi-dimensional data is still difficult. Tensor decomposition is capable of breaking a multi-way tensor down to different components of low rank tensors, so the visualization of a tensor's components will be a good substitution since the important features are contained in these components. The purpose of this section is to provide such a straightforward explanation of how the decomposition algorithm is able to extract the modes in a tensor using visualization. Since Tucker decomposition decomposes the tensor into a core tensor of same order, which makes it no easier to visualize, we will be focusing on CP decomposition that reduces the order of the tensor. One of the approach to visualize the modes in a tensor is proposed by Brunton and Nathan in their book [5]. To illustrate the process, I visualize the modes in an artificial tensor, created from two spatial-temporal functions, by PARAFAC decomposition from the N-way toolbox. More specifically, I defined the spatial-temporal functions with several exponential, Hermite, trigonometric, and hyperbolic terms. A combination of some of them will create a factor function that generates special modes along different dimensions according to input. For instance, if the factor is $sin(x)$, then it will create a cycling mode along the x axis. The summation of two or three of such factors will generate the final spatial-temporal functions; in other words, the tensor generated from the spatial-temporal functions ought to have two to three modes along each dimension. One thing to note is that since the output of the functions is a tensor, a multi-dimensional array, the inputs to the function are of same dimension as the tensor and all calculations are entry-wised. I used the meshed grid of three vectors, x, y and t, to create modes along the three axis x, y and time, where x and y represent the spacial information and t represents time. 

The following section introduces the function used to generate the artificial tensor. The two spatial-temporal functions are generated from two and three factors, respectively, and the three factor model simple adds a second degree term as a new mode for dimension x and y. Each factor is constructed from several terms including exponential, Hermite, trigonometric, and hyperbolic functions. They are defined as follow
$G_n(Z,X,Y,T) = F_{n}(Z) * cos(\frac{3}{2}T)+(sech (X) * tanh \left( X\right)  * e^{-0.2Y^2}) *sin T$

$G_n(Z,X,Y,T)_1 = F_{n}(Z) * cos(\frac{3}{2}T)+(sech (X) * tanh \left( X\right)  * e^{-0.2Y^2}) *sin T+X^2*(\frac{Y^2}{100})$

X,Y,T are meshgrids generated with three vectors x, y, t. Z is the sum of squared X and Y. n is the order of Hermite polynomial, and we may set it to be constant 2 here. The fraction $\frac{1}{100}$ is just for plotting purpose. All calculations involved are entry-wised calculations. They will generate various modes for the resulted tensor, where x, y and t will create spacial and temporal modes, respectively. An understanding of the shape and pattern of these component factor will provide context for results from tensor decomposition. 
